---
title: The resilience of Tito ↦
date: "2021-04-14 17:50:56"
author: Six Colors
authorlink: https://sixcolors.com/link/2021/04/the-resilience-of-tito/
tags:
- Six-Colors
---
<p>I’ve gotten to know Paul Campbell over the past few years because he was the co-organizer of the Apple-focused Úll conference. But he’s also the co-founder of Tito, a company focused on event ticketing. (Disclosure: A few years back I was paid to perform podcast interviews for a conference run by Tito.)</p>
<p>As you might expect, as a company focused on live events, Tito got hit hard by COVID-19. What’s remarkable is that the company immediately reacted by building <a href="https://vi.to">Vito</a>, a platform for hosting community-first online events.</p>
<p>Anyway, in the context of receiving some investment funding, today Paul <a href="https://blog.tito.io/posts/some-investment-news/">provided a bit of a status report</a>:</p>
<blockquote><p>
  Tito is still alive and <a href="https://twitter.com/hellofisher/status/1369364908752728074?s=20">people still love it</a>. We actually managed to complete most of the work on the product updates from last year and those will ship out of beta soon. Watch this space.</p>
<p>  We’ve quietly been shaping Vito into our vision for creating engaging online community spaces that strengthen the relationship between organisers, sponsors and participants.</p>
<p>  I’ve never been more excited to work on anything than I am with Vito, and that’s even after the toughest year we’ve ever had.
</p></blockquote>
<p>I was very impressed by how the people at Tito took the gut punch from COVID-19 and decided it was an opportunity to build something they’d always considered as a future project, immediately.&#8230;</p>