---
title: 'Ask HN: I built it, nobody came, now what?'
date: "2021-04-08 01:40:54"
author: Hacker News Frontpage
authorlink: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=26734079
tags:
- Hacker-News-Frontpage
---

<p>Hi HN,<p>I have built an application to scratch my own itch. It’s a tool that I had a need for in my day job for years. The problem it’s solving is a problem that I felt many people had too. But when I talked to people about it, most times it didn’t really click. So I thought “crap, they don’t get it, cause they don’t see it. Once I build it, they’ll get it”.<p>I didn’t spend an awful lot of time on it. And I think the app is ok-ish for an MVP.<p>Now I posted it here and there and sent it to a few people I know, but it doesnt seem good enough.<p>I realize now the importance of having a broad reach. If I was someone like Mike Bostock, with a bunch of followers, I’d just post it to Twitter and voila. Someone said earlier on HN: building an MVP should include a distribution strategy. And I can feel that pain. Now distribution is something I have zero skills at.<p>What should I do? There are a few things I could be doing, like:<p>- get better at marketing, make a video for my target customers<p>- try and build an audience through blogging and things of that nature<p>- go and sell it to customers in real life.<p>- try and find a co founder who would have the time and skills to do these things.<p>- add more features to the MVP that people tell me are missing<p>- create more documentation for the MVP, so that onboarding is smoother.<p>What would have most impact in getting the app in front of people?</p>
<hr>
<p>Comments URL: <a href="https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=26734079">https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=26734079</a></p>
<p>Points: 166</p>
<p># Comments: 191</p>
