---
title: Apple announces record fourth quarter
date: "2021-10-28 20:38:04"
author: Six Colors
authorlink: https://sixcolors.com/post/2021/10/apple-announces-record-fourth-quarter/
tags:
- Six-Colors
---
<p>On Thursday, Apple announced results for its fourth financial quarter of 2021, covering July through September. The company generated $83.4 billion in revenue. (The previous two fiscal fourth quarters showed very low growth over the previous year, so this year’s 29% increase in revenue year-over-year is especially impressive.)</p>
<p>iPhone sales were $38.9 billion, up 47% versus the year-ago quarter. It was a very good year for the iPhone business.  Services were $18.3 billion, continuing their relentless growth pace at 26% above the year-ago quarter.</p>
<p>Wearables sales were $8.8 billion, up 12% versus the year-ago quarter. That’s a good number out of context, but actually the slowest year-over-year growth rate for the category in almost five years. It’s a very seasonal business, though, so to truly judge the state of Apple’s wearables business, we should wait until the holiday quarter.</p>
<p>iPad sales were $8.3 billion, up 21% versus the year-ago quarter. The iPad business has averaged almost $8B in sales per quarter over the last year. We’ve seen six straight quarters of year-over-year growth for the iPad, 10 of 12, and 14 of 18.</p>
<p>Mac sales were $9.2 billion, up 2% versus the year-ago quarter. Despite the Mac’s smaller year-over-year growth number, it’s important to keep in mind that last year’s fourth quarter was the best Mac quarter ever at the time, and at $9.2B this is a new all-time record quarter in terms of Mac revenue.&#8230;</p>