---
title: 'Ask HN: What tech job would let me get away with the least real work possible?'
date: "2021-04-07 08:41:03"
author: Hacker News Frontpage
authorlink: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=26721951
tags:
- Hacker-News-Frontpage
---

<p>Hey HN,<p>I'll probably get a lot of flak for this. Sorry.<p>I'm an average developer looking for ways to work as little as humanely possible.<p>The pandemic made me realize that I do not care about working anymore. The software I build is useless. Time flies real fast and I have to focus on my passions (which are not monetizable).<p>Unfortunately, I require shelter, calories and hobby materials. Thus the need for some kind of job.<p>Which leads me to ask my fellow tech workers, what kind of job (if any) do you think would fit the following requirements :<p>- No / very little involvement in the product itself (I do not care.)<p>- Fully remote (You can't do much when stuck in the office. Ideally being done in 2 hours in the morning then chilling would be perfect.)<p>- Low expectactions / vague job description.<p>- Salary can be on the lower side.<p>- No career advancement possibilities required. Only tech, I do not want to manage people.<p>- Can be about helping other developers, setting up infrastructure/deploy or pure data management since this is fun.<p>I think the only possible jobs would be some kind of backend-only dev or devops/sysadmin work. But I'm not sure these exist anymore, it seems like you always end up having to think about the product itself. Web dev jobs always required some involvement in the frontend.<p>Thanks for any advice (or hate, which I can't really blame you for).</p>
<hr>
<p>Comments URL: <a href="https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=26721951">https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=26721951</a></p>
<p>Points: 1214</p>
<p># Comments: 713</p>
