---
title: 'The Back Page: Notch your business (Member Post)'
date: "2021-10-29 20:51:56"
author: Six Colors
authorlink: https://sixcolors.com/member/2021/10/the-back-page-notch-your-business/
tags:
- Six-Colors
---
<p>Reviews are in and the new MacBook Pros are a hit! Customers love the power, the battery life, the not totally garbage webcam, and the function keys that are actual keys. It’s hands down the best pro laptop Apple has made in years, and nobody could be disappointed by a single aspect of it.</p>
<p>Well. Except…<em>the notch</em>.</p>
<p>What used to be just a campfire tale warning children about the danger of those newfangled iPhones has now come for all of our Macs. Devouring our menu bars with no remorse. Consuming cursors with a vengeance. Concealing valuable, much-needed screen real estate.</p>
<p>Surely Apple, in its infinite loop wisdom, could have found a way to design around the notch. A company that can fit thousands of songs <em>in your pocket</em>? One that can pack so much power into smartphones that they can outperform expensive computers? That continues to make money with the efficiency of a machine designed only to make money? No, the idea simply beggars belief, which means there’s only one reasonable conclusion that any right-minded person can reach.</p>
<p><em>Conspiracy.</em></p>
<p>What is Apple hiding behind the notch? What truth lurks, obscured only by that seemingly innocent black, half rounded-corner rectangle?&#8230;</p> <p>This story is for Six Colors members only. <strong><a href="https://sixcolors.com/subscribe/">Become a member</a></strong> to get access to exclusive stories, podcasts, and community..</p>