---
title: 'Ask HN: What will be the future differentiator in electric vehicles?'
date: "2021-04-05 13:01:37"
author: Hacker News Frontpage
authorlink: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=26698371
tags:
- Hacker-News-Frontpage
---

<p>If you buy a mobile phone today, the choice is between Android and iOS, or, more specifically, between Samsung and Android.<p>[LG's announcement to stop making smartphones is a testament to how the technology and (economy of scale) of Apple and Samsung have evolved to a duopoly of smartphone brands. For most consumers, two choices are enough. Quick: name the third in line: Coca Cola, Pepsi and ...? Or McDonald's, Burger King and ...?)<p>Will the same happen for electric cars? Ford is already building their EVs on a VW chassis.<p>For example: whether you buy an electric Kia or electric Porsche, what are the real engineering differences between the car, considering:<p>- the drivetrain is electric
- the center of gravity is lowered in almost all EVs because of the (current state of the art) of battery placement
- Many key (security) parts are bought OEM from the same suppliers, including tyres, audio systems and airbags.
- The manufacturer with the most driven miles will likely have the least amount of "bugs"<p>Will car brands go even more the way of fashion brands, where the difference between Porsche and Kia will be like the difference between Balenciaga and Nike: both are functional footwear, but I'd choose the Nikes and save the difference.<p>Will "internal luxury" and "prestige" take the overtone in marketing and branding for the next 20 years, as opposed to how "clean" a car is and the engineering of their engines? And, of this technology, how will supercar automakers adapt? E.g. why buy a Ferrari if the "soul" (engine) is replaced with an electric drivetrain that is likely less mature in engineering than what would be inside a Tesla S?</p>
<hr>
<p>Comments URL: <a href="https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=26698371">https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=26698371</a></p>
<p>Points: 56</p>
<p># Comments: 108</p>
